In previous lessons, you learned about the NIST and CIS
requirements for performing an asset inventory that includes any software,
hardware, network devices, anything on the network that are a part of your business.
You then took an inventory of your personal devices and then practice with a case study.
In this lesson, we dive deep into the topic by reviewing
specific requirements and information about a target system.
This includes taking an inventory of all the installed applications,
system configuration settings, and any policies affecting that system.
How do you identify assets and devices on your network?
Well, according to the CIS controls,
there are multiple options.
You can use active or passive discovery tools
to identify devices on the organization's network.
Active tools like the Nmap application can query a network range for all IP addresses,
giving you visibility as to what's on the network.
Windows DHCP, Dynamic Host Control Protocol,
automatically distributes IP addresses when device attaches to a network.
This is an example of a passive tool that collects
asset information that you can use as part of your asset inventory.
Many organizations also have a manual list of
organizational assets and a database or a spreadsheet.
Another option on a network is port level access control,
that controls which devices can authenticate or attach to the network.
Once you have an inventory,
all organizations should address any unauthorized assets on the network.
For example, bluetooth speakers like Google Home or Amazon Alexa.
Having too many applications are nightmare for maintenance and upkeep,
whether it's for a home system or your work.
Each needs to stay current on patches or else you risk getting
breached to when a vulnerability is exploited in an attack.
How do you identify and control software programs used by your organization?
Well, the CIS controls has a direction for that.
Many organizations maintain a list of organizational assets and a database,
a software inventory tool or Windows Server Update Services,
also known as WSUS or W SUS.
WSUS captures information about Window systems and software on a corporate network.
It also is used to distribute patches on Windows systems and applications.
The second step is to restrict who has administrator authority.
In other words, who can install applications?
The risk is that employees will accidentally install
malicious software or an application that's in violation of the license agreement,
both put you and your organization in jeopardy.
The third task is to use application whitelisting.
This is a list of what's allowed on your systems.
Anything that's not on the list is automatically denied for being installed or used.
For example, let's say you have a remote employee with
a company laptop that wants to install a game for their kids.
Of course, that should be denied not only because it's not for business use,
but it's also a potential security risk.
Like the hardware inventory,
make sure you address any unapproved software.
More information on this topic is available from
the Center for Internet Security controls framework.